# Miscallaneous tools distributed with CRISPR-pooled-RSL pipeline

The following tools are included in this repository. While not part of the analysis pipeline, they prepare the input libraries for analyses.

* tools to filter input libraries sequenced in technical replicates to detect *bona fide* RSL-sgRNA combinations under `miscellaneous/input-filtering`;

* script to process fastq files to remove the set constant part in the middle of the read `fastq_trim_mid_v2.pl`.


## Input filtering

This is a pipeline to filter **input libraries** sequenced in two technical replicates to assess the effect of different filtering cutoffs (range 1 to 10) on data. The output is a report with various descriptive statistics and plots.

The pipeline uses Singularity / Apptainer containers.


Usage:

```
module load java/OracleJDK_11.0.9
module load bioinfo-tools
module load Nextflow/22.10.1

nextflow run /path/to/Input-filter.nf -profile cluster,singularity
```

### Containers

Three containers are used in this pipeline:

* `crisprcounter-perl.sif` described in the main pipeline;

* `agatasm/perl518_list_someutils` perl 5.18.4 with several packages;

* `agatasm/rpckg-input-report` R packages and other required for report generation;


Docker files for these containers are included with the main pipeline.


### Config files

Run specifc `nextflow.config` file should contain the following:

```
params {
	        // path to dir with tech replicates
	        fastqdir = "/path/to/FASTQ"

	        // library design file
	        librarydesign = "/path/to/Brunello_Library_USE_THIS_ONLY.csv"

	        // file with filenames of tech replicates
	        sampleinfo = "/path/to/samples.txt"

	        // allocation
	        project = "naiss2024-22-55"

	        // run name
	        projname = "inputrun_noref_29iv2024"

	        // use reference data
	        //usereference = "TRUE"
	        usereference = "FALSE"

	        // path to count table with evaluation data set
	        refdatacnttable = "/proj/sllstore2017103/software/tests/ref_data/REFDATA.UMIcounts.csv"

	        refdatapref = "REFDATA.UMIcounts"

	        // additional filtering by RowSums to remove low abundance RSL-sgRNA combinations in reference data
	        filtRowSums = 1
}
```


* `inputrun.properties`  (format appropriate for `CrisprCounter.jar`) is generated by the pipeline;

* `refdatacnttable` is a path to count table with reference data set;

* `fastqdir` path to directory with fastq files (technical replicates);

* file name information is provided via file `samples.txt`;

If desired, the run may be performed without using reference data (`usereference = "FALSE"`).



## fastq_trim_mid_v2.pl

Script to process fastq files: removes middle part of the fastq read (based on the position); works with fastq.gz.

Usage:

```
perl fastq_trim_mid_v2.pl --infile in.fastq --pos 24 --len 20
```

OBS! This script was tested on perl 5.26.x. It may not work on perl 5.30.x and above.

